kubernetes.md, before:

# kubectl

## get

cm,deploy,ing,po,rs,rc,sa,svc

Valid resource types include:

- clusters (valid only for federation apiservers)
- componentstatuses (aka 'cs')
- configmaps (aka 'cm')
- daemonsets (aka 'ds')
- deployments (aka 'deploy')
- endpoints (aka 'ep')
- events (aka 'ev')
- horizontalpodautoscalers (aka 'hpa')
- ingresses (aka 'ing')
- jobs
- limitranges (aka 'limits')
- namespaces (aka 'ns')
- networkpolicies
- nodes (aka 'no')
- persistentvolumeclaims (aka 'pvc')
- persistentvolumes (aka 'pv')
- pods (aka 'po')
- podsecuritypolicies (aka 'psp')
- podtemplates
- replicasets (aka 'rs')
- replicationcontrollers (aka 'rc')
- resourcequotas (aka 'quota')
- secrets
- serviceaccounts (aka 'sa')
- services (aka 'svc')
- statefulsets
- storageclasses
- thirdpartyresources


# Useful and to be expanded on...

`kubectl delete pod NAME --grace-period=0`

`kubectl get deployments --all-namespaces`

you could then target another command by namespace as in:

`kubectl --namespace=foo delete deployment baz`


# Core Objects / Terms

## Clusters

A collection of resources including:

### Master

Coordinates activities of the cluster.

Exposes an API for the Nodes to use.

### Nodes

VM or physical computer (not just container?).

Docker or rkt.

There should be at least three nodes.

Nodes communicate with the master via the k8s API.

#### kublet

An agent for managing the node and communicating with the cluster.

#### Containerization - docker or rkt

#### Pods

Pods are the atomic unit in k8s. Containers are deployed _within_ a pod. The pod has:

* container specific runtime information such as:
  - ports to use
  - image version
* A cluster specific IP address for networking, meaning multiple containers can share that IP
* Shared storage, as Volumes

> Note on Volumes: Volumes have a life span equal to that of the pod that contains them. This means that other (application) container restarts will not mean the loss of data stored on the volume, however, loss of the pod WILL -- unless the Volume is a mounted resources such as a Amazon Elastic Block Store or a Network File System (NSF) resource.

Pods are _logical hosts_, and the containers within the pod will typically be tightly coupled.

## Deployments

Containerized applications that run on top of clusters. The master schedules the application instances and these are actually created by the individual nodes. So the deployment lives in the master, and the apps live in the nodes.

## Services

A logical set of pods that are grouped to allow access via an IP provided outside the cluster.

Services also make service discovery within the cluster possible, meaning that the front end web app and the back end rest server apps (regardless of the number of containers) use the internal cluster unique ip to communicate. Additionally, and external IP can be exposed beyond the cluster (load balancing) or via port using NAT. (This is a bit hand wavey in the the tutorial.)

>Note: Federated Services
>
>It is possible to provided an abstracted _federated_ service that provides one control plane that fronts multiple clusters - for example geographically distinct data centers. This is done by having that federated server front requests to the abstracted clusters in which it creates identical pods in each cluster.

## Labels

Key/value pairs that may be attached to some objects (i.e. pods) and then used as a selector by another (i.e a service). Selectors are applied at deployment, labels may be added at creation or modified later.

# other objects / terms


dameonset (ds)
-

job
-

replicaset (rs)
-

replication controller (rc)
-




# kubetcl (command line interface)

## context

Basic syntax is:

    kubectl ACTION RESOURCE

e.g.

    kubectl get nodes

for help specific to a ACTION add --help.

    kubectl get --help

The `--help` flag accepts a RESOURCE as well, however, the help provided might be generic to the action.

## reference

All are prefaced by `kubectl`

    cluster-info

basic information about running cluster

    cluster-info dump

Provides more detail

-

    delete < RESOURCE > < NAME >

Resources can be a comma separated (no spaces) list for multiple types with the same name or `-l` labels.

A file can also be specified (yaml or json).

describe
-

    describe <resource type>

Enumerates key details for resources matching the request. Flags enable various types of filtering.

exec
-

    exec < POD > < COMMAND >

Execute a command on the first container in a `pod`. Passing the `-c` flag allows the specifying of a container other than the first. `-it` can be passed to attach to stdin/stdout.

expose
-

    expose < RESOURCE TYPE > < RESOURCE NAME > --port=80 --target-port=8000

This resource would serve on port 80 and connect to containers on port 8000.

It is also possible to pass a file

    expose file_describing_resource.yaml --port=80 --target-port=8000

The file can be either yaml or json, and fields that may be used are defined by the api.

get
-

    get < RESOURCE TYPE >

List resources, such as nodes, deployments, pods etc. `--help` will provide a complete list of such resources.

label
-

    label < RESOURCE TYPE > < NAME >

Apply, or `--overwrite` labels. As with other commands, a json or yaml file may be specified. Note that a label can be removed entirely by a trailing `-`


    kubectl label pod web-1 bye-

Which would remove the label `bye` from the web-1 pod. However, as these are key/value pairs this does not seem particularly common except to correct errors.  Consider the case of using `version=1.0.2` or `status=healthy` or `env=prod` as examples. In all these cases, the expectation is that the label value would change, but the label itself would remain.

log
-

    log POD -c CONTAINER

`-f` allows you to follow that log.

`kubectl -f pod_name | grep -v "lines_to_ignore include this text"` is a useful pattern to cut down on noise.

Container may be omitted if there is only one in the pod. There are numerous flags to constrain the output, or to `-f` follow it. By default a "snapshot" is returned (according to `--help` without any description of what that means).

Note that `logs` is an alias.

rollout
-

    rollout SUBCOMMAND RESOURCE_TYPE/NAME

Subcommands include:

    history
    pause
    resume
    status
    undo

Details on each subcommand are available using `--help`.

run
-

    run DEPLOYMENT_NAME --image=<repo url> --port=<port number>

Under the name provided, the master scheduled the creation of the container by the Node, which creates the Pod and containers specified.

scale
-


    scale RESOUCE_TYPE/RESOURCE_NAME --replicas=COUNT

Resource types are Deployment, ReplicaSet, Replication Controller, or Job.

A file may also be used:

    scale -f FILE.yaml --replicas=COUNT


set image
-

    set image TYPE/NAME CONTAINER_NAME=IMAGE

The image may be a standard docker registry image or a path to an image in a private repository may be provided.

> Note: `set` is a broader command presently operating ONLY on `image`.

Commit message:

shell, k8s, vim updates
shell: negative search

vim: word wrap, multiple commands

k8s: expose, usefull grep patterns

kubernetes.md, after:

### kubectl

#### expose

Creates a service from a deploy, svc, rs, rc, or po on the specified port, defaulting to a ClusterIP type.

The following is a quick way to stand up an nginx deploy/rs of two po behind a svc, using NodePort:

```
kubectl run nginx --replicas=2 --image=nginx
kubectl expose deploy/nginx --type=NodePort --port=80
```

#### get

cm,deploy,ing,po,rs,rc,sa,svc

Valid resource types include:

- clusters (valid only for federation apiservers)
- componentstatuses (aka 'cs')
- configmaps (aka 'cm')
- daemonsets (aka 'ds')
- deployments (aka 'deploy')
- endpoints (aka 'ep')
- events (aka 'ev')
- horizontalpodautoscalers (aka 'hpa')
- ingresses (aka 'ing')
- jobs
- limitranges (aka 'limits')
- namespaces (aka 'ns')
- networkpolicies
- nodes (aka 'no')
- persistentvolumeclaims (aka 'pvc')
- persistentvolumes (aka 'pv')
- pods (aka 'po')
- podsecuritypolicies (aka 'psp')
- podtemplates
- replicasets (aka 'rs')
- replicationcontrollers (aka 'rc')
- resourcequotas (aka 'quota')
- secrets
- serviceaccounts (aka 'sa')
- services (aka 'svc')
- statefulsets
- storageclasses
- thirdpartyresources

When listing all resources of interest, to focus use `grep -v`, e.g. see all pods that do not have age in terms of days:

```
kubectl get po | grep -v "[0-9]d"
# or use perl regex
kubectl get po | grep -P -v "\dd"
```

Or, to look a bit more precisely with clear age contrast when grep is using color:

`kubectl get po | grep -P " \ds| \d\ds| \dh| \d\dh| \d\dm| \dm"`


# Useful and to be expanded on...

`kubectl delete pod NAME --grace-period=0`

`kubectl get deployments --all-namespaces`

you could then target another command by namespace as in:

`kubectl --namespace=foo delete deployment baz`


# Core Objects / Terms

## Clusters

A collection of resources including:

### Master

Coordinates activities of the cluster.

Exposes an API for the Nodes to use.

### Nodes

VM or physical computer (not just container?).

Docker or rkt.

There should be at least three nodes.

Nodes communicate with the master via the k8s API.

#### kublet

An agent for managing the node and communicating with the cluster.

#### Containerization - docker or rkt

#### Pods

Pods are the atomic unit in k8s. Containers are deployed _within_ a pod. The pod has:

* container specific runtime information such as:
  - ports to use
  - image version
* A cluster specific IP address for networking, meaning multiple containers can share that IP
* Shared storage, as Volumes

> Note on Volumes: Volumes have a life span equal to that of the pod that contains them. This means that other (application) container restarts will not mean the loss of data stored on the volume, however, loss of the pod WILL -- unless the Volume is a mounted resources such as a Amazon Elastic Block Store or a Network File System (NSF) resource.

Pods are _logical hosts_, and the containers within the pod will typically be tightly coupled.

## Deployments

Containerized applications that run on top of clusters. The master schedules the application instances and these are actually created by the individual nodes. So the deployment lives in the master, and the apps live in the nodes.

## Services

A logical set of pods that are grouped to allow access via an IP provided outside the cluster.

Services also make service discovery within the cluster possible, meaning that the front end web app and the back end rest server apps (regardless of the number of containers) use the internal cluster unique ip to communicate. Additionally, and external IP can be exposed beyond the cluster (load balancing) or via port using NAT. (This is a bit hand wavey in the the tutorial.)

>Note: Federated Services
>
>It is possible to provided an abstracted _federated_ service that provides one control plane that fronts multiple clusters - for example geographically distinct data centers. This is done by having that federated server front requests to the abstracted clusters in which it creates identical pods in each cluster.

## Labels

Key/value pairs that may be attached to some objects (i.e. pods) and then used as a selector by another (i.e a service). Selectors are applied at deployment, labels may be added at creation or modified later.

# other objects / terms


dameonset (ds)
-

job
-

replicaset (rs)
-

replication controller (rc)
-




# kubetcl (command line interface)

## context

Basic syntax is:

    kubectl ACTION RESOURCE

e.g.

    kubectl get nodes

for help specific to a ACTION add --help.

    kubectl get --help

The `--help` flag accepts a RESOURCE as well, however, the help provided might be generic to the action.

## reference

All are prefaced by `kubectl`

    cluster-info

basic information about running cluster

    cluster-info dump

Provides more detail

-

    delete < RESOURCE > < NAME >

Resources can be a comma separated (no spaces) list for multiple types with the same name or `-l` labels.

A file can also be specified (yaml or json).

describe
-

    describe <resource type>

Enumerates key details for resources matching the request. Flags enable various types of filtering.

exec
-

    exec < POD > < COMMAND >

Execute a command on the first container in a `pod`. Passing the `-c` flag allows the specifying of a container other than the first. `-it` can be passed to attach to stdin/stdout.

expose
-

    expose < RESOURCE TYPE > < RESOURCE NAME > --port=80 --target-port=8000

This resource would serve on port 80 and connect to containers on port 8000.

It is also possible to pass a file

    expose file_describing_resource.yaml --port=80 --target-port=8000

The file can be either yaml or json, and fields that may be used are defined by the api.

get
-

    get < RESOURCE TYPE >

List resources, such as nodes, deployments, pods etc. `--help` will provide a complete list of such resources.

label
-

    label < RESOURCE TYPE > < NAME >

Apply, or `--overwrite` labels. As with other commands, a json or yaml file may be specified. Note that a label can be removed entirely by a trailing `-`


    kubectl label pod web-1 bye-

Which would remove the label `bye` from the web-1 pod. However, as these are key/value pairs this does not seem particularly common except to correct errors.  Consider the case of using `version=1.0.2` or `status=healthy` or `env=prod` as examples. In all these cases, the expectation is that the label value would change, but the label itself would remain.

log
-

    log POD -c CONTAINER

`-f` allows you to follow that log.

`kubectl -f pod_name | grep -v "lines_to_ignore include this text"` is a useful pattern to cut down on noise.

Container may be omitted if there is only one in the pod. There are numerous flags to constrain the output, or to `-f` follow it. By default a "snapshot" is returned (according to `--help` without any description of what that means).

Note that `logs` is an alias.

rollout
-

    rollout SUBCOMMAND RESOURCE_TYPE/NAME

Subcommands include:

    history
    pause
    resume
    status
    undo

Details on each subcommand are available using `--help`.

run
-

    run DEPLOYMENT_NAME --image=<repo url> --port=<port number>

Under the name provided, the master scheduled the creation of the container by the Node, which creates the Pod and containers specified.

scale
-


    scale RESOUCE_TYPE/RESOURCE_NAME --replicas=COUNT

Resource types are Deployment, ReplicaSet, Replication Controller, or Job.

A file may also be used:

    scale -f FILE.yaml --replicas=COUNT


set image
-

    set image TYPE/NAME CONTAINER_NAME=IMAGE

The image may be a standard docker registry image or a path to an image in a private repository may be provided.

> Note: `set` is a broader command presently operating ONLY on `image`.
