shell.md, before:

> Unless otherwise indicated, this document refers to bash shell.  

> Option lists on commands are non-exhaustive. The intention is to explain and highlight command line and scripting usage, not to clone the man pages.

---
crib
---

# commands

## `alias`

Map one token to many tokens, typically to save keystrokes on repetitive tasks.

It can be invoked per session, e.g. when you ssh to a host, and then `unalias` can remove it from the session if needed.

```
alias kc="kubectl"
# hack
# hack 
# hack
unalias kc
```

The more common pattern is to add aliases to `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` so that they are built into each session.

## `apt`

> `apt-get update`
> resynchronize the package index files

`apt-get install foo`
> install foo

## brctl (bridge control - ethernet bridge admin)
`brctl show` list network bridges

## `cat`

Concatenate and print files.

Useful to quickly look at files with low risk of changing the file.

Useful to produce one file from two: `cat file_B >> file_A`

## `cd`

`cd -` Shorthand to change directory back to the last directory from which you changed directory. Thus:

```
$ pwd
> /foo/bar
$ cd ../baz
$ pwd
> /foo/baz
$ cd -
$ pwd
> /foo/bar
```

## `chmod`

Change file mode bits.

`chmod +x script.sh`  make `script.sh` executable  

### Symbols  
Multiple can be given, separated by commas.

#### rwxXst

`r` read  
`w` write  
`x` execute  
`X` execute or search only if file is a directory or already has execute permission for some user [?]    
`s` set user or group ID on execution [?]  
`t` restrict deletion flag [?]  

#### ugoa  

`u` _user_ who owns it  
`g` file _group_  
`o` _other_ users not in the files group  
`a` _all_ users  

## compgen

`compgen -a` list all available aliases


## `curl`

Internet transfers for resources specified as URLs using Internet Protocols. 

`curl 10.1.2.3 -m 5`  specify a maximum of 5 seconds to complete the entire operation.

## `diff`

`diff -i file_one.txt file_two.txt` output different lines, case insensitive

## `env`

Used on its own to see environment (see [`printenv`](#printenv)) and additionally to override the environment within which a command will be executed.

## `exec`

Replaces the current process with a specific command. No subprocess is forked.

Can be a useful way to return to a new shell state.

## `export`

Setting a variable:

`FOO="bar"`

Establishes a key/value pair that is available to the current shell process without becoming part of the environment that is passed to a child process. This is commonly referred to as a _shell variable_, in contrast to an _environment variable_.

The `export` command exports a shell variable to the environment, making it available to child processes.

## `fc`

Fix Command builtin that edits and re-executes - or lists - a range of commands from the history.

> Be careful of the default behavior, which is to re-execute!

Suppose you perform `history | grep foo` and find the spot where you were working with `foo` and the result is:

`101 foo bar`

and you want to see what you did with `bar` before and after line 101.

`fc -l 98 103` will print those 5 lines, lets say they are:

```
98  cd foo
99  . bar arg-a
100 cat bar.log ../full.log
101 foo bar
102 rm bar.log
103 ls -la
```

and if you wanted to re-execute 99 to 102, but with `arg-b` you could

`fc -e vim 99 102`

and those commands would be copied to vim, you could modify the arg for `. bar` and then save and exit.

## `find`

`find ~/path/to/start/from -name pattern` where pattern is the name or partial name (* / ?) of the file

**note** Be sure to use quotes to prevent filename expansion, aka _globbing on the wild card `*`_

`find . -name '*py' ! -path '*test*'` Find all python files, but exclude directories that have "test" as part of their path, e.g. `/systest/` or `/test/`.

## `gpg`  

`gpg --list-keys`  to get see what keys are on a system  
`gpg --export > all.gpg` to get all keys on key ring  
`gpg --import > all.gpg` to import that key set into another system  
`gpg -r {key_id} -e {file_name}` encrypt a file (adds .gpg to the end of the file name to name the new file)   


## `grep`

File pattern searcher.


`grep foo baz`  search baz for lines containing foo

`grep foo baz -v`  search baz for lines that do NOT contain foo

`grep foo baz -c`  returns match count

`grep foo baz --color` results colored for contrast

## `history`

`history | grep command-of-interest`  

```
270 blah-blah-blah  
271 command-of-interest  
272 blah-blah-blah
```

Then use the `!n` event designator to target the line you want to repeat...

`!271`

And use `!!` to reference the last command, as in `sudo !!`

see `fc`

## `ifconfig` (WIP)

Configure a network interface.

`-a` Display details of all interfaces.

## `ls`

```
-c # use time when last changed for sorting (-t) or long printing (-l)  
-C # column output
-F # / directory * exe @ symbolic = socket % whiteout | FIFO  
-G # colorized  
-h # unit suffixes  
-l # long format  
-R # recursively list sub-directories encountered  
-r # reverse order  
-S # sort by size  
-t # sort by time modified  
-u # sort by time of last access  
-U # sort by time of file creation  
```

## `mtr`

Traceroute and ping. 


## `netstat`

Print network connections, routing tables, interfaces stats and more.

`netstat -rn -f inet
## `printenv`

List environment Variables

See:  
* [`env`](#env)
* [`set`](#set)

## `read`

`read A && echo $A`
`read -p "A proper prompt > " A && echo $A`

```
while read A; do
  echo $A
done
```

## `rsync`  
`rsync -a file_to_send.txt username@server:~/path/if/desired`  

## `scp`

Secure copy

`user@host:path/to/file` format to specify target

`-r` recursive

When using `-r` in combination with `-F`:

`scp -r -F path/to/config_file path/to/copy user@host:relative/path/for/copies`

`scp -F path/to/ssh_config_file path/to/file/to/copy.py host_name:/path/to/copy/file/into`

Depending on how your ssh_config_file is set up, you may be using a `user@host_name:` format, in which case either specify a full path:

`/home/ubuntu/path/to/copy/file/to.txt`

or, alternatively just the partial path from the home directory for the user:

`path/to/copy/file/to.txt`

Note in the later case we presume the presence of the home path.

## `set`

List all variables and functions for the session.

Use `(set -o posix; set)` to exclude functions.

Use `set | grep foo` and `printenv | grep foo` to get evidence if `foo` is an environment variable or shell variable.

The most common pattern is to use `set` in a script to set the options for that script. Thus, including `set -x` in the top of a script elicits the same behavior as invoking the script with that option passed.

### options

See http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/options.html#OPTIONSREF

Those commonly referenced:

- `-e` exit on error
- `-x` print and expand each command


## sleep

`sleep <seconds>`  suspend execution for a minimum of seconds given.  

## source  

`source FILENAME [arguments]`  loads functions files  
For example, we may wish to `source ~/.profile`  re-load the profile after adding a new alias to our `.profile`.  

## tee

`ls -a | tee results.txt` both shows the output on stdout and also writes it to a file
`cat file_of_interest | tee -a results.txt` appends the file due to `-a` or `--append` flag

## test

Exits with a 0 (true) or 1 (false) based on the evaluation of an expression.

**NOTE** that since we are looking at a *return code* the logic can feel backwards! 0 == TRUE and 1 == FALSE because we want to be able to use the return code in the rest of a script!

`test` returns 1, since there is no expression

`[ ]`  this is an alias for `test`, and so returns exactly the same as above.

`[ "any string on its own evaluates to true."]` useful for debugging.

There are numerous flags that provide the ability to do focused testing or combine expressions in standard logic.

`if [ "$FOO" == "" -o "$BAR" == "" ]; then echo "do something if either one is missing"; fi` OR  

`if [ "$FOO" != "" -a "$BAR" != "" ]; then echo "do something only if both are present"; fi`  AND  

### options

`[ -d .git ]` returns 0 (true) in a directory under git source control.

`[ -f .git ]` would return 1 (false)

`[ -n "string" ]` tests if the length of a string is nonzero, would return 0 (true).

`[ -z "" ]` tests if the length of a string *is* zero, so would return 0 (true).

### useful patterns

`[ -n "$ENV_VAR_WE_NEED" ] || die "error message"`

## `uname`

Print basic system information. Use `uname -a` to get all information, or `man uname` to find option to target.

## uptime  
`uptime` to see how long server has been running, users, load averages for 1,5 and 15 minutes  

## wc
`wc -l life_the_universe_and_everthing.sh` ideally this would return 42, as would running it :P   

## `xargs`

Construct an arguments list and execute the results.

A common pattern is:

`find . -name foo | xargs sed -i '' -e 's/bar/baz/'`

---
End man crib
---

# __SHELL SCRIPTS__

`#!/bin/bash` is a convention to let `execve` know what interpreter to load to execute a script. The actual path might vary, and can be determined with `which`.

## Control Flow aka Logic & Conditionals

### `if`

```
if foo; then
  bar;
elif baz; then
  qux;
else xux
```

## Variables

To set an environment variable:

`MY_VAR="value"`

The ALL_UPPERCASE is a convention. Lowercase can be used, but following the convention improves readability.

To clear the variable:

`unset MY_VAR`

### Variables and executable scripts

Scripts that have been made executable (`chmod +x foo.sh`) will run in a different process than the one where your invocation of that script takes place. This means that to ensure `BAR` is available to`foo.sh` we have to include the variable declaration in the invocation of the script: `BAR="baz" foo.sh`.

# builtins

`:`  The colon character is a null command, or a no op. From the documentation -- `Do nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing redirections. The return status is zero.`

Some use cases help:

* override a nonzero exit code

    ```
    if [ -f ${file} ]; then
        grep some_string ${file} >> otherfile || :
        grep other_string ${file} >> otherfile || :
    fi
    ```

* assign default values

    ```
    : ${FOO:=bar}
    ```

* infinite loops

    ```
    while :
    do
        <shell commands>
        <exit condition>
    done
    ```

* stub out a function

    ```
    function FleshMeOutLater {
        :
    }
    ```

Examples from [StackExchange][^1]

[^1]: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/31673/what-purpose-does-the-colon-builtin-serve

### 0_misc  

#### `$@` or all args

The example:

```
exec docker run --rm -it \
  -v $PWD:$PWD --workdir $PWD \
  ${DOCKER_PORT_ARGS} \
  -e "LOCAL_USER_ID=$(id -u)" \
  ${DOC_IMG} "$@"
```

This snippet is part of a shell script. A script can itself be called with multiple arguments following the script name.

In the context we see here, which is a script that puts us into a docker container anchored to the present working directory with network connections, we are able to include as arguments to our script additional options to invoke once the container is started. For example, we might invoke a `Makefile` recipe in some contexts and call yet another bash script in a different context. Using `"$@"` allows us to pass this later invocation as args in the invocation of the first script.   

`HISTTIMEFORMAT="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S: "`

other formatting options
```
cc      Century (either 19 or 20) prepended to the abbreviated year.
yy      Year in abbreviated form (e.g., 89 for 1989, 06 for 2006).
mm      Numeric month, a number from 1 to 12.
dd      Day, a number from 1 to 31.
HH      Hour, a number from 0 to 23.
MM      Minutes, a number from 0 to 59.
ss      Seconds, a number from 0 to 61 (59 plus a maximum of two leap seconds).
```

`ls -d */` list directories  

#### redirect  
`ls -al > directory_list.txt` file listing directory contents  
`ls > text.txt 2>&1` both std and err as `2>&1` redirects stderr to stdout  

See `tee` for method to have std out and also redirect to a file.

#### sftp  

`get filename.txt` transfers the file to the directory you logged into the sftp server from  

#### SPF  

Sender Policy Framework.  TXT records published on DNS that list hosts considered legit.  
`nslookup -type=txt domain.com`.  

#### ssh  
`ls -al ~/.ssh` list present keys (if any)

`ssh -F path/to/ssh_config_file host_name`

#### interactive
>`clear && ls -lG` demo of multiple commands on one line using `&&`  

#### programming  
>`$?` Exit status  
>`read` takes user input and assigns it to `$REPLY` by default  
>`read -p "A proper prompt > " myvar` would output the prompt, and store the typed value into `$myvar`  

#### reverse-i-search
>`CTRL-R` to search for a command in the history - e.g. `CTRL-R` `ssh` `CTRL-R` `CTRL-R` to find the third match >then `CTRL-Shift-R` to go back to the second.  

>Add a comment to tag things: `command #tag` allows `CTRL-R` `#tag` to find those commands so tagged.  

#### stash
>`CTRL-A` to get to the start of your line  
>`CTRL-K` to stash it  
>`CTRL-Y` to yank it  

#### nginx
> `/etc/init.d/nginx status`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx start`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx stop`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx restart`  

#### DKIM  

Domain Keys Identified Email. A digital signature attached to each email validated against a public key.  
`host -t TXT dkimrecord`  

#### DMARC  

Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance. To check use `dig txt _dmarc.somedomain.tld` used to tell the ESP what to do when the SPF or DKIM fails.

#### DNS

`whois domain.com`  
then, using the NS  
`nslookup domain.com NS-server` and  
`host domain.com NS-server`  

### The real misc. debris...

#### yaml "scripts"

Continuous Integration/Delivery/Deployment tools often use `.yaml` files, with a portion of them being used for scripts. The intention is generally to have simple one line commands and to invoke shell scripts for more complex logic. In cases of simple logic, a structure such as:

```
- |
  if ["$FOO" == "bar"]; then
      echo "this would be an actual command or script..."
    else
      echo "and this would be the alternate case..."
  fi
- echo "and then back to regular commands"
```

### vagrant
`vagrant ssh -- -A -v`

Commit message:

shell hack to edit find result

shell.md, after:

> Unless otherwise indicated, this document refers to bash shell.  

> Option lists on commands are non-exhaustive. The intention is to explain and highlight command line and scripting usage, not to clone the man pages.

---
crib
---

# commands

## `alias`

Map one token to many tokens, typically to save keystrokes on repetitive tasks.

It can be invoked per session, e.g. when you ssh to a host, and then `unalias` can remove it from the session if needed.

```
alias kc="kubectl"
# hack
# hack 
# hack
unalias kc
```

The more common pattern is to add aliases to `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` so that they are built into each session.

## `apt`

> `apt-get update`
> resynchronize the package index files

`apt-get install foo`
> install foo

## brctl (bridge control - ethernet bridge admin)
`brctl show` list network bridges

## `cat`

Concatenate and print files.

Useful to quickly look at files with low risk of changing the file.

Useful to produce one file from two: `cat file_B >> file_A`

## `cd`

`cd -` Shorthand to change directory back to the last directory from which you changed directory. Thus:

```
$ pwd
> /foo/bar
$ cd ../baz
$ pwd
> /foo/baz
$ cd -
$ pwd
> /foo/bar
```

## `chmod`

Change file mode bits.

`chmod +x script.sh`  make `script.sh` executable  

### Symbols  
Multiple can be given, separated by commas.

#### rwxXst

`r` read  
`w` write  
`x` execute  
`X` execute or search only if file is a directory or already has execute permission for some user [?]    
`s` set user or group ID on execution [?]  
`t` restrict deletion flag [?]  

#### ugoa  

`u` _user_ who owns it  
`g` file _group_  
`o` _other_ users not in the files group  
`a` _all_ users  

## compgen

`compgen -a` list all available aliases


## `curl`

Internet transfers for resources specified as URLs using Internet Protocols. 

`curl 10.1.2.3 -m 5`  specify a maximum of 5 seconds to complete the entire operation.

## `diff`

`diff -i file_one.txt file_two.txt` output different lines, case insensitive

## `env`

Used on its own to see environment (see [`printenv`](#printenv)) and additionally to override the environment within which a command will be executed.

## `exec`

Replaces the current process with a specific command. No subprocess is forked.

Can be a useful way to return to a new shell state.

## `export`

Setting a variable:

`FOO="bar"`

Establishes a key/value pair that is available to the current shell process without becoming part of the environment that is passed to a child process. This is commonly referred to as a _shell variable_, in contrast to an _environment variable_.

The `export` command exports a shell variable to the environment, making it available to child processes.

## `fc`

Fix Command builtin that edits and re-executes - or lists - a range of commands from the history.

> Be careful of the default behavior, which is to re-execute!

Suppose you perform `history | grep foo` and find the spot where you were working with `foo` and the result is:

`101 foo bar`

and you want to see what you did with `bar` before and after line 101.

`fc -l 98 103` will print those 5 lines, lets say they are:

```
98  cd foo
99  . bar arg-a
100 cat bar.log ../full.log
101 foo bar
102 rm bar.log
103 ls -la
```

and if you wanted to re-execute 99 to 102, but with `arg-b` you could

`fc -e vim 99 102`

and those commands would be copied to vim, you could modify the arg for `. bar` and then save and exit.

## `find`

`find ~/path/to/start/from -name pattern` where pattern is the name or partial name (* / ?) of the file

**note** Be sure to use quotes to prevent filename expansion, aka _globbing on the wild card `*`_

`find . -name '*py' ! -path '*test*'` Find all python files, but exclude directories that have "test" as part of their path, e.g. `/systest/` or `/test/`.

## `gpg`  

`gpg --list-keys`  to get see what keys are on a system  
`gpg --export > all.gpg` to get all keys on key ring  
`gpg --import > all.gpg` to import that key set into another system  
`gpg -r {key_id} -e {file_name}` encrypt a file (adds .gpg to the end of the file name to name the new file)   


## `grep`

File pattern searcher.


`grep foo baz`  search baz for lines containing foo

`grep foo baz -v`  search baz for lines that do NOT contain foo

`grep foo baz -c`  returns match count

`grep foo baz --color` results colored for contrast

## `history`

`history | grep command-of-interest`  

```
270 blah-blah-blah  
271 command-of-interest  
272 blah-blah-blah
```

Then use the `!n` event designator to target the line you want to repeat...

`!271`

And use `!!` to reference the last command, as in `sudo !!` or:

```
find . -name foo
# presuming the result is/are the file/s you wish to edit...
vim $(!!)
```
see `fc`

## `ifconfig` (WIP)

Configure a network interface.

`-a` Display details of all interfaces.

## `ls`

```
-c # use time when last changed for sorting (-t) or long printing (-l)  
-C # column output
-F # / directory * exe @ symbolic = socket % whiteout | FIFO  
-G # colorized  
-h # unit suffixes  
-l # long format  
-R # recursively list sub-directories encountered  
-r # reverse order  
-S # sort by size  
-t # sort by time modified  
-u # sort by time of last access  
-U # sort by time of file creation  
```

## `mtr`

Traceroute and ping. 


## `netstat`

Print network connections, routing tables, interfaces stats and more.

`netstat -rn -f inet
## `printenv`

List environment Variables

See:  
* [`env`](#env)
* [`set`](#set)

## `read`

`read A && echo $A`
`read -p "A proper prompt > " A && echo $A`

```
while read A; do
  echo $A
done
```

## `rsync`  
`rsync -a file_to_send.txt username@server:~/path/if/desired`  

## `scp`

Secure copy

`user@host:path/to/file` format to specify target

`-r` recursive

When using `-r` in combination with `-F`:

`scp -r -F path/to/config_file path/to/copy user@host:relative/path/for/copies`

`scp -F path/to/ssh_config_file path/to/file/to/copy.py host_name:/path/to/copy/file/into`

Depending on how your ssh_config_file is set up, you may be using a `user@host_name:` format, in which case either specify a full path:

`/home/ubuntu/path/to/copy/file/to.txt`

or, alternatively just the partial path from the home directory for the user:

`path/to/copy/file/to.txt`

Note in the later case we presume the presence of the home path.

## `set`

List all variables and functions for the session.

Use `(set -o posix; set)` to exclude functions.

Use `set | grep foo` and `printenv | grep foo` to get evidence if `foo` is an environment variable or shell variable.

The most common pattern is to use `set` in a script to set the options for that script. Thus, including `set -x` in the top of a script elicits the same behavior as invoking the script with that option passed.

### options

See http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/options.html#OPTIONSREF

Those commonly referenced:

- `-e` exit on error
- `-x` print and expand each command


## sleep

`sleep <seconds>`  suspend execution for a minimum of seconds given.  

## source  

`source FILENAME [arguments]`  loads functions files  
For example, we may wish to `source ~/.profile`  re-load the profile after adding a new alias to our `.profile`.  

## tee

`ls -a | tee results.txt` both shows the output on stdout and also writes it to a file
`cat file_of_interest | tee -a results.txt` appends the file due to `-a` or `--append` flag

## test

Exits with a 0 (true) or 1 (false) based on the evaluation of an expression.

**NOTE** that since we are looking at a *return code* the logic can feel backwards! 0 == TRUE and 1 == FALSE because we want to be able to use the return code in the rest of a script!

`test` returns 1, since there is no expression

`[ ]`  this is an alias for `test`, and so returns exactly the same as above.

`[ "any string on its own evaluates to true."]` useful for debugging.

There are numerous flags that provide the ability to do focused testing or combine expressions in standard logic.

`if [ "$FOO" == "" -o "$BAR" == "" ]; then echo "do something if either one is missing"; fi` OR  

`if [ "$FOO" != "" -a "$BAR" != "" ]; then echo "do something only if both are present"; fi`  AND  

### options

`[ -d .git ]` returns 0 (true) in a directory under git source control.

`[ -f .git ]` would return 1 (false)

`[ -n "string" ]` tests if the length of a string is nonzero, would return 0 (true).

`[ -z "" ]` tests if the length of a string *is* zero, so would return 0 (true).

### useful patterns

`[ -n "$ENV_VAR_WE_NEED" ] || die "error message"`

## `uname`

Print basic system information. Use `uname -a` to get all information, or `man uname` to find option to target.

## uptime  
`uptime` to see how long server has been running, users, load averages for 1,5 and 15 minutes  

## wc
`wc -l life_the_universe_and_everthing.sh` ideally this would return 42, as would running it :P   

## `xargs`

Construct an arguments list and execute the results.

A common pattern is:

`find . -name foo | xargs sed -i '' -e 's/bar/baz/'`

---
End man crib
---

# __SHELL SCRIPTS__

`#!/bin/bash` is a convention to let `execve` know what interpreter to load to execute a script. The actual path might vary, and can be determined with `which`.

## Control Flow aka Logic & Conditionals

### `if`

```
if foo; then
  bar;
elif baz; then
  qux;
else xux
```

## Variables

To set an environment variable:

`MY_VAR="value"`

The ALL_UPPERCASE is a convention. Lowercase can be used, but following the convention improves readability.

To clear the variable:

`unset MY_VAR`

### Variables and executable scripts

Scripts that have been made executable (`chmod +x foo.sh`) will run in a different process than the one where your invocation of that script takes place. This means that to ensure `BAR` is available to`foo.sh` we have to include the variable declaration in the invocation of the script: `BAR="baz" foo.sh`.

# builtins

`:`  The colon character is a null command, or a no op. From the documentation -- `Do nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing redirections. The return status is zero.`

Some use cases help:

* override a nonzero exit code

    ```
    if [ -f ${file} ]; then
        grep some_string ${file} >> otherfile || :
        grep other_string ${file} >> otherfile || :
    fi
    ```

* assign default values

    ```
    : ${FOO:=bar}
    ```

* infinite loops

    ```
    while :
    do
        <shell commands>
        <exit condition>
    done
    ```

* stub out a function

    ```
    function FleshMeOutLater {
        :
    }
    ```

Examples from [StackExchange][^1]

[^1]: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/31673/what-purpose-does-the-colon-builtin-serve

### 0_misc  

#### `$@` or all args

The example:

```
exec docker run --rm -it \
  -v $PWD:$PWD --workdir $PWD \
  ${DOCKER_PORT_ARGS} \
  -e "LOCAL_USER_ID=$(id -u)" \
  ${DOC_IMG} "$@"
```

This snippet is part of a shell script. A script can itself be called with multiple arguments following the script name.

In the context we see here, which is a script that puts us into a docker container anchored to the present working directory with network connections, we are able to include as arguments to our script additional options to invoke once the container is started. For example, we might invoke a `Makefile` recipe in some contexts and call yet another bash script in a different context. Using `"$@"` allows us to pass this later invocation as args in the invocation of the first script.   

`HISTTIMEFORMAT="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S: "`

other formatting options
```
cc      Century (either 19 or 20) prepended to the abbreviated year.
yy      Year in abbreviated form (e.g., 89 for 1989, 06 for 2006).
mm      Numeric month, a number from 1 to 12.
dd      Day, a number from 1 to 31.
HH      Hour, a number from 0 to 23.
MM      Minutes, a number from 0 to 59.
ss      Seconds, a number from 0 to 61 (59 plus a maximum of two leap seconds).
```

`ls -d */` list directories  

#### redirect  
`ls -al > directory_list.txt` file listing directory contents  
`ls > text.txt 2>&1` both std and err as `2>&1` redirects stderr to stdout  

See `tee` for method to have std out and also redirect to a file.

#### sftp  

`get filename.txt` transfers the file to the directory you logged into the sftp server from  

#### SPF  

Sender Policy Framework.  TXT records published on DNS that list hosts considered legit.  
`nslookup -type=txt domain.com`.  

#### ssh  
`ls -al ~/.ssh` list present keys (if any)

`ssh -F path/to/ssh_config_file host_name`

#### interactive
>`clear && ls -lG` demo of multiple commands on one line using `&&`  

#### programming  
>`$?` Exit status  
>`read` takes user input and assigns it to `$REPLY` by default  
>`read -p "A proper prompt > " myvar` would output the prompt, and store the typed value into `$myvar`  

#### reverse-i-search
>`CTRL-R` to search for a command in the history - e.g. `CTRL-R` `ssh` `CTRL-R` `CTRL-R` to find the third match >then `CTRL-Shift-R` to go back to the second.  

>Add a comment to tag things: `command #tag` allows `CTRL-R` `#tag` to find those commands so tagged.  

#### stash
>`CTRL-A` to get to the start of your line  
>`CTRL-K` to stash it  
>`CTRL-Y` to yank it  

#### nginx
> `/etc/init.d/nginx status`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx start`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx stop`  
> `/etc/init.d/nginx restart`  

#### DKIM  

Domain Keys Identified Email. A digital signature attached to each email validated against a public key.  
`host -t TXT dkimrecord`  

#### DMARC  

Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance. To check use `dig txt _dmarc.somedomain.tld` used to tell the ESP what to do when the SPF or DKIM fails.

#### DNS

`whois domain.com`  
then, using the NS  
`nslookup domain.com NS-server` and  
`host domain.com NS-server`  

### The real misc. debris...

#### yaml "scripts"

Continuous Integration/Delivery/Deployment tools often use `.yaml` files, with a portion of them being used for scripts. The intention is generally to have simple one line commands and to invoke shell scripts for more complex logic. In cases of simple logic, a structure such as:

```
- |
  if ["$FOO" == "bar"]; then
      echo "this would be an actual command or script..."
    else
      echo "and this would be the alternate case..."
  fi
- echo "and then back to regular commands"
```

### vagrant
`vagrant ssh -- -A -v`
